# CS305-Portfolio
- For this assignment, a fictional client titled "Artemis Financial" requested security analysis for a web application. They provide financial plans ecompassing savings, retirement, investments and insurance, tailored individually to customers. They require their software to be modernized, using modern RESTful APIs, and also conform to the latest security standards due to the sensitivity of their customer's data.
- The application we were asked to review had a few glaring vulerabilities in the codebase. Notably, certain data was being taken from users and being operated on without sanity checks, posing a substantial risk for arbitrary code execution. Upon identifying this vulnerability, I investigated the full scope of the issue before proceeding to write a short description of the vulnerability, including potential attack vectors, and constructed a fix to mitigate it. Secure software is a vital part of modern businesses, protecting their data, customer's data, and the company's reputation as being reliable and trustworthy. These are all essential components of a 21st century business.
- Specifically working through a codebase tracking down every identifiable issue was a relatively new experience, and I found it a welcome challenge to really stretch the limits of what I considered to identify interesting vulnerabilities such as scope levels on class members set too broad.
- In particular, breaking apart methods to sanity-check data and handle rogue errors before they reach users was an important part of the development process. Multiple resources were made available to us, including vulnerability databases and testing tools.
- Functionality testing after changes was the first step to ensure the software continued to function after modification. We were given specific test cases to perform that ensured the application still handled data correctly. Additionally, standard code review and vulnerability testing were applied after changes to maintain the level of security in the application.
- I found the Maven dependency check tool for Java a very interesting tool. Modern software is typically built on large frameworks that pull many dependencies into the fold, and this tool helps identify which may need to be updated before patches can be provided by the maintainers of the frameworks.
- From this assignment, I am particularly proud of the breakdown I provided for different security issues and potential resolutions.
